How to Start a Conversation and Make Friends					

Staring Your Conversations with Confidece					
	First Contact！Body Language 				
		S = Smile			
		O = Open Arms			
		F = Forward Lean			
		T = Touch			
		E = Eye Contact			
		N = Nod			
	Body Language + Tone of Voice + Words = Total Communication				
		I'm at a cocktail party, and I don't know anyone. It seems like everybody knows everybody else, except me. How do I go up to someone and start a conversation?			
			Prepare ＾conversation fuel￣		
			When you enter the room, look for friendly faces among the crowd and for people talking.		
			Keep your eyes open for friends, acquaintances, or people already engaged in a conversation that appears open to others.		
			When you meet a complete stranger at a party, the easiest way to break the ice is to introduce yourself and say how you know the host. 		
Breaking the Ice and Getting the Conversation Going					
	1. Risk Versus Rejection				
		Change from Passive to Active			
			By initiating conversations, you'll get more positive responses, and your fear of rejection will lessen. In this way your risk taking can pay off in making new contacts and having more meaningful conversations.		
			Another advantage of being the first to say hello is that it gives you the opportunity to guide the direction of the conversation, and gives the other person the impression that you are confident, friendly, and open. You are also complimenting the other person by showing a desire to start a conversation with him.		
		Minimize Rejections！Look for Receptivity			
			When you do get rejected, don't dwell on it. Instead, use it as a lesson and adjust your approach for next time		
			The best way to minimize rejection is to look for receptivity in those you approach. Try to be sensitive to "where others are at," Look for open arms, eye contact,and a smile. Look for people who are sending receptive signals through their body language, and when you feel the time is right, approach them in a friendly and direct way.		
		How to Accept Rejections			
			If you're rejected, don't automatically assume it's your fault The other person may have several reasons for not doing what you are asking him to do; none of it may have anything to do with you.		
			 Rejections are a part of everyday life.		
			you take more risks, and start conversations, you will receive a mixture of open and closed    responses, and each rejection will become less and less meaningful. 		
			Focus on the positive responses, and you will get better at choosing receptive people		
			When you take the active role, you are sending this message: "I'm friendly and willing to communicate if you are."		
	2. Ask Easy-to-Answer Ritual Questions				
		Breaking the Ice！A Compliment or Comment Followed by a Ritual Question			
			First, notice something interesting about the person you wish to speak with and, in a friendly and sincere manner, offer a compliment. Quickly follow the compliment with a ritual question that is directly related to the compliment you just gave. 		
				"That's a beautiful ring you're wearing! What kind of stone is it?"or "Say, you're a terrific skater! How did you learn to do all those tricks?"	
			A second way to break the ice is to notice something that the person is carrying！maybe a book, musical instrument, or a piece of sporting equipment. After establishing eye contact and smiling, ask a ritual question based on the object. 		
				"I see you're a tennis player. I want to start playing. Can you recommend a good racket for a beginner?"	
			A third way to break the ice and start a conversation is to make a comment or ask a question based on the situation.		
				"I'm looking for a good place to eat nearby. Can you recommend a restaurant in the neighborhood?"	
				 "You look a little lost. Are you looking for someplace in particular? I live in the neighborhood！maybe I can help you."	
			In addition to asking for or offering assistance, another way to start a conversation is to make comments based on what you observe. 		
				 It is best to focus on the positive things you see rather than complaining about the negative. 	
		The Perfect Time to Introduce Yourself			
			Generally, the longer you wait to make an introduction, the more uncomfortable people get, so the sooner you take the initiative, the better		
		Closed and Open Ritual Questions			
			Closed-ended		
				Closed-ended ritual questions usually require only a yes or a no, or just a one- or two-word answer.	
				Closed-ended questions often begin with words like: Are? Do? Who? Where? and Which? 	
				example	
					Do you live around here?    Do you like the food?    What time is it?    Are you going to the park?    When did you get here?    Where are you from?    Are you enjoying your stay here?    Is this your first visit here?
			Open-ended		
				Open-ended ritual questions usually require a more detailed answer, and they encourage the other person to talk.	
				Open-ended ritual questions commonly start with How?Why? In what way? How did you get involved? How can I get involved? 	
				example	
					How did you find your apartment?    In what ways do you think this country (city, college, etc.) has changed?    How did you get involved in that line of work?    Why did you decide to move there?    What brings you to our town?    What do you like to do on your days off?
			Tips		
				 Remember to follow closed questions with open-ended questions. 	
				Make your questions easy and straightforward.	
				It is also very important that you be willing to answer ritual questions. 	
				 Answering a closed-ended question with more than just a one- or two-word answer shows that you are willing to talk.	
		Free information			
			When we communicate with one another, we reveal much more than we realize. The information that we volunteer is called free information. 		
			Focus on this,and use it as conversational fuel for follow-up questions. By focusing on the free information we can explore each other's experiences and interests in a natural and free-flowing manner.		
		Telling Others What You Do			
			Some people feel uncomfortable if others ask them the ritual question "What do you do?" 		
			If you like talking about your profession, then reveal some free information and see if the other person shows more interest. 		
			You can reveal other basic facts about yourself,while guiding the direction of the conversation. 		
		Getting to Know You			
			By exchanging little details about one another, you can get to know the person you are talking with very quickly.		
			If your ritual question gets a brief response, try another until you get an enthusiastic response. When you discover an area of interest in the other person, be sure to follow with an open-ended information seeking question.		
	3. Know What to Say by Listening (Active Listening)				
		Don't Think！Listen for "Key Words"!			
			Know what to say next by listening carefully for key words, facts, opinions, feelings, and most of all, free information.		
			Don't think about what you are going to say next, because while you are thinking, you're not listening! 		
			The solution to this problem is to use active listening skills while the other person is speaking. These include using good body language, especially eye contact, smiling, and nodding in response. Active listening encourages people to continue speaking, and it shows that your attention is focused on the conversation.		
		Improve Your listening Skills			
			Conversation problems include poor listening, memory, and concentration skills. 		
		Ask Relevant Follow-up Questions			
			Asking relevant follow-up questions based on what the other person has said shows you are listening. 		
			Closed-ended questions help to clarify facts and details.		
			Open-ended questions encourage the speaker to elaborate and suggest that you are interested in the topic		
		Use Examples			
			Ask for and think of examples that support or question what is being said. If you are not sure what the other person is saying, or you don't understand what she is talking about,ask for an example to make the point clear for you.		
		Anticipate			
			If you anticipated the speaker correctly, then you know you are probably on the same wavelength. 		
			If your anticipations were not correct, this can be a warning signal that you and your partner are not tuned in to each other, and that a misunderstanding may be developing		
			Caution: Don't finish the other person's sentences. Not only is it rude, it shows you're not listening.		
		Summarize			
			When you are listening, it is helpful to keep the main theme in mind,and from time to time, summarize what the other person has said.		
			When you understand her main point, restate it. For example, you can say, "If I understand you correctly, you think . . ."		
		Get Actively Involved			
			Conversations are more fun when you get actively involved.		
			By participating, you'll improve your listening skills and retention of details and main ideas. 		
			Plus, the other person will feel more comfortable because you're showing interest in what he has been talking about. 		
			Combining your prior knowledge and new information will provide you with enough new questions and comment		
		Listen for "Iceberg" Statements			
			An "iceberg" statement is a comment or a piece of free information where 90 percent is under the surface, waiting to be asked about. 		
			When you hear an iceberg statement like, "YouH never believe what happened to me ..." or "Guess what I've been doing," quickly ask a related follow-up question or say "What happened?" or "You don't say l Tell me, how was it?" Other follow-up open-ended questions are "Why do you say that?" "In what ways?"and "How so?"		
		Good Listening Requires Practice and Concentration			
			Active listening skills need to be practiced and will aid your conversational abilities immensely. 		
			They will encourage those you talk -with to elaborate further and to feel more comfortable in opening up to you. When you share a person's enthusiasm for a topic by listening closely to what he says, you are giving him a "green light" to continue. 		
			Active listening shows your interest and curiosity in a person by sending this message: "I'm interested in what you are saying！keep talking, I want to hear more!"		
	4. Seek More Information Based on Free Information				
		Asking Personal Questions			
			Asking personal questions always requires a particular sensitivity to the other person's feelings, and especially his level of receptivity to you.		
			If you ask a personal question in such a way that the other person does not have to answer,often he will respond in some form.		
			If you are asked a question you'd rather not answer, simply say, "I'd rather not answer that question, if you don't mind."		
			If you feel a question is too personal to answer, or you'd rather not, it is your right to do as you wish. After declining to answer, throw the conversational ball back to the other person with a ritual question on a new topic.		
		Avoid PitfallsWhenSeeking Information			
			Avoid traditional conversational taboos such as death, gory-crimes, unhappy events, personal gossip, or racial and ethnic slurs. 		
			 Remember that it's better to begin with easy questions that are upbeat. They will encourage your partner to feel comfortable and allow you both to get to know each other through gradual self-disclosure.		
			Listen carefully for topics a person may wish to avoid discussing. 		
	5, Disclose Free Information				
		It's a Way to Let Others Get to Know You			
			Self-disclosure lets others get to know you on your own terms. The information you share with the people you meet determines how they get to know you. 		
			Be enthusiastic when you share your personal interests and the "big"events in your life, including your hopes, goals, and most rewarding experiences.		
			You can gradually tell others what you do for employment, your background, goals, and, most important, your availability for future contact.		
		To Tell or Not to Tell！That Is the Question			
			Yes, a certain amount of caution about revealing personal aspects of one's past is prudent. However, if you are secretive, you will leave the impression that you have something to hide. 		
			No one expects (or wants) you to reveal your deepest fears or secrets, but if you desire meaningful conversations, be prepared to reveal some of your history and what is important to you.		
		Realistically, What Do You Have to Lose?			
			Close and meaningful relationships are nearly impossible without personal revelations and mutual trust and confidence.		
			Trust is created by being willing to reveal some personal information to the other person.		
			While some feelings are best kept to oneself, especially in work-related situations, it can be destructive to let this guarded attitude carry over into your personal life.		
			 Although there are people who do take unfair advantage of others' personal disclosures,avoiding sharing personal feelings is a guarantee of a life of loneliness and isolation.		
			To overcome this problem,begin to observe others as they disclose information to you and others. See how often you bury your feelings and opinions. Take the risk of being more open with your disclosures. 		
			The next time someone asks you a question about your background, personal feelings, or opinions, remember you are entitled to think and feel as you please. You are free to express yourself to others.		
		Self-Disclosure！Four Levels to Building Trust			
			The first is called "cliche"greeting.		
				These are very general disclosures and are responses to ritual greetings such as. "How are you?" "What's new?" "How are you doing?" "How have you been?" or "How's the family?" Though these questions evoke responses such as "Finer or "just great, couldn't be better," they provide an excellent opportunity to reveal free information. 	
				These Low-level disclosures tell the other person that your attitude is open and friendly, and if the situation permits, that you are available for conversation.	
			This second exchange some basic personal facts. 		
				Tell others what you do, where you are from, what you like to do for fun, or some current project or activity that you are involved in. 	
				This second level of self-disclosure provides a background of experiences and information for conversational partners to compare and explore. 	
				It is at this point that people begin to get to know one another.	
			The third level of self-disclosure is revealing personal opinions and preferences on different subjects.		
				 At this level you can reveal your attitudes, values, and concerns.	
				You can tell others what you honestly think and feel about the world around us. Express your ideas in an open manner and encourage others to share their ideas on varied topics. 	
				Remember, people have differing views. Good conversation is not a debate, with a winner and a loser, but an exchange of views and ideas. 	
				Open-minded discussion, not arguing, is an excellent means of sustaining a conversation while letting the participants know more about one another on a more meaningful level.	
			The final level of self-disclosure is your personal feelings！especially about the people you know and wish to become closer to. 		
				 These are the most difficult disclosures for most people to make because they require revealing our emotions. 	
				Though it can be difficult (and risky) to reveal your feelings,it will give your partners a more meaningful sense of who you are, and what is important to you. 	
				When you disclose your hopes, dreams, loves, joys, and sorrows, people will be able to identify with you. because we all share these basic emotional experiences. 	
		Helpful Self-Disclosure Hints			
			Be Careful About How Much You Disclose		
			Be Realistic About Yourself		
				If you exaggerate your good qualities and hide your faults, people will soon realize that you are not presenting a real picture. 	
			Reveal Your Goals		
				Reveal your goals and struggles. You'll be surprised to learn that most people empathize with you and will usually be encouraging.	
			Let Someone Get to Know You		
				Don't be afraid of boring the other person. Most people are interested in making new friends, and it's essential to let others know who you are and if you have mutual interests. 	
				You don't have to entertain the people you meet, but be as upbeat as possible. 	
Five Seconds to Success: The Art of Remembering Names					
	Five Seconds to Success				
		Five seconds! That's all the time you have to make a great first impression. Five seconds is all the time it takes to introduce yourself and remember a person's name.			
		The famous author and public speaker Dale Carnegie said, "The sweetest sound in any language is a person's name." There's no question about it. People feel flattered when you remember their names. 			
		When you remember the name of a person you've recently met, you make him feel important and special and you add a large measure of personal warmth and friendliness to the conversation.			
		Remembering names also shows that you are listening, builds rapport with new acquaintances, and helps overcome the natural barriers that separate strangers.			
	A Good Memory for Names Is Rare				
		How many times have you been talking to someone you've met before！maybe even more than once！and you can't remember his name? Or you're introducing mutual friends or acquaintances, and one person's name just slips right out of your head? Or you go to a party and you are introduced to someone, and five seconds later you can't recall her name? Or maybe you see a client, and you don't remember his name, so it's difficult to introduce him to your boss? 			
		As a result of your poor memory, you feel embarrassed and avoid people you already know, as well as new acquaintances because you might offend them by forgetting their names.			
	Why Do We Forget People's Names?				
		The most common reason for forgetting names is failing to focus on the moment of introduction, so you never hear them in the first place. You are too busy thinking about what you're going to say next or worrying about what others will think of you. 			
		Other distractions such as loud music or people talking can also cause you to miss the name.			
		 But lack of interest is the worst reason for failing to focus on someone's name.			
	Five Seconds to Success				
		The First Second: Focus on the Moment of introduction			
			Let the other person know that you consider her name important by giving her your full attention when you are introduced. Make direct eye contact,offer a warm smile,and extend a firm, friendly handshake. Holding on to the other person's hand an extra second can help you focus on the critical moment of introduction and what is about to come next！her name.		
		The Second Second: Don't Think about What to Say！Listen for the Name			
			This is the moment you've been waiting for, so don't blow it by thinking about yourself and what you're going to say next. Concentrate your complete attention and listen for every letter in the person's name, particularly the first initial. If you missed the name, simply say,"Sorry,I didn't catch your name." Or,"Excuseme,I missed your name." If the name is unusual, a foreign name, or you're still not sure what he has said, ask:"Can you spell your name for me? I want to be sure to get it right.		
		The Third Second: Repeat the Name Aloud			
			Be sure to repeat the name to make sure that you got it right. Quickly imagine the first initial etched on the person's forehead or connect it with a feature on his face. This may sound weird, but it works, especially when you are trying to recall the name later.		
			Repeating the name also has several additional benefits. First, it lets the other person know that you listened and that you are making a concentrated effort to remember her name. This is flattering. Second, if you got the name wrong,it allows the other person to correct you. Finally, by repeating the name, you think it, say it, and then hear it again, thus giving yourself three more repetitions in addition to hearing the name the first time. And,as most memory experts agree,repetition is one of the key ingredients to retention and recall！ or,practice makes perfect.		
		The Fourth Second: Think of Someone You Know With the Same Name			
			Chances are good that when you meet someone new, he or she will have the same name as someone you already know, and this will help you remember the name		
			As you are introduced, think of someone else you know with the same name！a relative,classmate,or even a pet! 		
			This technique may sound strange, but with a little practice, you'll remember most of your new acquaintances with common first names.		
		The Fifth Second: Use the Name During and at the End of the Conversation			
			Using a person's name personalizes the conversation as it reinforces your memory and ability to recall it at your next meeting. Ending the conversation with her name leaves a great first impression and completes the cycle of starting, continuing, and ending a conversation.		
Keeping the Conversation Going Strong					
	Key No. 1: Focus on the Situation You Are In				
		You can converse with others simply by focusing on the various aspects of your immediate surroundings. Once you identify yourself, it's natural to find out what others are doing in this place. This approach can provide many conversational topics. You don't have to think of what to say. Just observe your situation and find something to ask or comment about.			
		Look Outward！Not Inward			
			Many poor conversationalists tend to look and think inward rather than focusing on surrounding people and events. They think about how they look, what others might think about them, and whether they are liked. They wonder if people will think they are intelligent or stupid, attractive or ugly, and so on. These "inward" thoughts will make you feel self-conscious and almost totally unaware of what is occurring around you. As a result, all that conversational fuel right in front of your eyes, ears, and nose is lost. Instead, use your senses to pick up the details around you and use them in conversation. In addition, when you think and look outward, you'll be less self-conscious and uncomfortable. Your self-confidence will increase, fear and self-doubt will diminish, and your conversations will become more natural and sustained.		
		Think of Your Situation as a Series of Concentric Circles			
			If you focus your conversation on your immediate surroundings, it's easy to expand your topics to the next immediate environment. For example, if you're in an adult education class, then the classroom is your immediate environment, or the center of the concentric circles. After you discuss the class, broaden the conversation to the next circle out to include the school or neighborhood. Focus on the various elements of your surroundings！other classes, the campus, restaurants in the area,movie theaters,clubs,etc. As you continue, broaden your discussion to include where you live, how you travel to class, recreational areas nearby, the city, or interesting outlying areas. Once you realize the enormous amount of conversational fuel directly available, you'll never be at a loss for words.		
	Key No. 2: Find Out About the Big Events in the Person's Life				
		Hot Buttons			
			Dale Carnegie in How To Win Friends and Influence People said if you find the really big events in a person's life, conversation won't be a problem, "Hot buttons" are areas that are of keen interest to and create enthusiasm in people you talk with and in yourself. 		
			These are subjects that you or your conversational partner can really "get into" and talk about for an extended period of time. 		
			Hot buttons can be work, a new job, a hobby, a career goal, an upcoming trip, a sporting activity, a personal dedication to a social cause, and even sex! Hot buttons are subjects or activities that really interest people. A hot button can be a lifelong interest, a passing fancy, or a current fascination！whatever turns you on!		
		How to Find Someone Else's Hot Buttons			
			Because of our accessibility to a wide range of activities,many people share common interests, goals, and life experiences. The trick is to find out about others, and discover which ones you have in common.		
			When seeking someone's hot buttons, fish around subject areas with ritual questions. When you receive an enthusiastic response, express interest in the subject. 		
			Often people wear or carry items that are hot button indicators.		
			Often people reveal their hot buttons through iceberg statements！that is, they make a statement that reveals the tip of the conversational iceberg, and they're just waiting to be asked the particulars of an activity or project they are involved in. 		
		How You Can Reveal Your Hot Buttons to Others			
			It's not enough to find the other person's hot buttons. Remember,a good conversation is balanced, so be ready to reveal your hot buttons, too. By letting others know what's important to you,you are giving them an opportunity to get to know you on your terms and in a way that makes a good impression.		
			When you are invited to a party or social event, it is helpful to write down a half dozen or so topics that you're excited about and are willing to share with those you meet. Take this personal inventory of your hot buttons！projects, future plans, or world events！and talk about them enthusiastically with those around you.		
		Share Your Hot Buttons			
			When you share your hot buttons, be as specific as possible about your involvement. Use plenty of facts, examples, dates, and places so your conversational partner has lots of free information to question you about. 		
			Take care not to use jargon or technical terms when discussing topics with people who aren't familiar with your hot button. Give them an inside look at what excites you about the topic, rather than overly specific details. 		
		Seek Common Interests			
			Many people are pleasantly surprised to find that people they meet share common interests. Through active conversation, you get closer to particular goals associated with that subject. Of course, the more interests you have and are able to discuss, the more fulfilling your conversations will be.		
			So keep Dale Carnegie's advice in mind: find out the really big things in people's lives and encourage them to talk about them. 		
	Key No. 3: Balance the Two-Way Information Exchange				
		Good Conversation Is a Balance of Talking and listening			
			For a conversation to be stimulating and sustained,the participants must be active talkers as well as active listeners. 		
			 It's better to paint the big picture first, and if your partner wants to know more,you can always fill in with details.		
			Keep your comments and questions focused on big ideas rather than extraneous details, and you'll keep to the point. This way you won't confuse or bore your listener.		
		Balance the Information You Exchange			
			While people speak, they should be exchanging basic personal information, ideas, opinions, facts, and details at about the same rate. 		
			This is a natural way of getting to know people, and it will promote trust while encouraging both parties to disclose more personal information. It's important to be a good listener, but being an equal participant is also very necessary and important.		
			An unbalanced conversation will make both parties uncomfortable. 		
			The more balanced your exchanges are, the more quickly you'll really get to know the person and the more likely the relationship will flourish.		
	Key No. 4: Discuss Topics That Are Important to You				
		It's essential to let others know what you consider important and meaningful. The best way to reveal your values and attitudes to others is to discuss topics of concern and interest to you. 			
		When you talk about events that are important to you, the other person gets an idea of your personality, and it also provides an enormous well of conversational material.			
		Be receptive to your partner's point of view and listen carefully to what he has to say. When it's your turn to give your opinion, your partner will be more receptive and open to your ideas.			
		A few words of caution: when telling someone what's important to you, be careful not to spill your guts, tell all, or get on a soapbox. 			
	Key No. 5: Change Topics Using Free Information				
		Changing topics is probably the easiest way to sustain a conversation while fishing for mutual interest areas with your partner. 			
		Refer to Free information ！ "1 Heard You Mention Earlier . . ."			
			The most common method of changing topics is to refer to previously revealed free information by commenting or asking a closed-ended ritual question. 		
			Always listen carefully and remember free information since it can provide good conversational fuel.		
			Be careful to maintain focus, jumping from topic to topic can give your partner the impression that you cannot (or don't care to) discuss an issue on a meaningful level.		
			Be sensitive to unenthusiastic responses, and be ready to change to a new topic quickly when you feel you have touched on a high-sensitivity or low-interest area for the other person.		
		Let's Change the Subject!			
			What do you do if someone brings up a negative or inappropriate subject！especially at a party or social event? 		
			You've made the suggestion to change the subject, so it's up to you to do just that. Pick up the conversational ball quickly and open a new topic of discussion by making a comment or asking an open-ended question based on free information that you heard earlier before the conversation took an unfortunate turn. Usually the other participants will feel relieved that the negative topic didn't last too long.		
		Listen for Key Words, facts, and Details！and Remember Them!			
			Listen carefully for words,facts,and details,and refer to them as your conversation continues. 		
			This shows that you are listening and interested in what is being said, and also serves as conversational fuel. You can control the conversation's direction simply by focusing your comments and questions on these facts and details.		
	Key No. 6: Seek Out Common Interests and Experiences				
		When there is a slight lull in the conversation, you can always refer back to an area of mutual interest you heard earlier, if you don't let the other person know that you relate to several details of his conversation, then he might assume you're not interested in discussing them.			
		there is a slight lull in the conversation, you can always refer back to an area of mutual interest you heard earlier, if you don't let the other person know that you relate to several details of his conversation, then he might assume you're not interested in discussing them.			
		When you let the other person know you can identify with a topic,experience,or goal,you create a bridge between you and him. 			
		When you meet someone and discover areas of common interest and experience,you gain building blocks to develop a deeper relationship. 			
GettingYour Ideas Across					
	Several factors can keep the speaker from getting his ideas across to others.				
		People have a resistance to change for many different reasons. Resistance to change is reinforced by the attitude that it's safer not to trust people.			
		Another common problem that complicates reaching others is that sometimes you are competing for their attention. Instead of listening to your every word, the other participant is often thinking her own thoughts and tuning you out.			
		A third factor that interferes with communication with others is wishful hearing. What you say is often misunderstood by the listener because he interprets it to mean something he really wants to hear！not what you actually said or intended.			
		A fourth reason why you may not get your ideas through to others is that you make unwarranted assumptions about the other person. 			
		Finally, people who maintain a veil of habitual secrecy about what they think and feel tend to be resentful when you ask them what they do or any other common ritual question.			
	Opening Channels				
		Encouraging Cooperation and Receptivity			
			 Begin to encourage cooperation and receptivity by telling others the purpose of your conversation.		
			When you ask a question, tell the person why you want to know.  Tell your motivation for asking the question, and your partner will be more inclined to answer without being overly cautious.		
			Another essential factor in gaining people's cooperation and receptivity is developing respect for others. When you show that you care, a person will more likely confide in and trust you. 		
			Don't ignore people's feelings, and you'll be encouraging cooperation and receptivity for you to present your ideas.		
			A good way to increase your sensitivity while talking to others is to ask yourself questions like:		
				How will what I'm saying make the other person feel?    How will he react to what I'm saying?    Will he feel complimented or put down by what I'm saying?	
			By taking the other person's viewpoint, you will be projecting your own receptivity and, as a result, will lower her defenses and open the channels of communication.		
		Explore Irrelevant Comments			
			When you hear ideas that seem irrelevant, explore their purpose. 		
			 Accepting the other person's sense of relevancy will broaden the conversation to include his purpose as "well as yours. 		
			Cooperation and receptivity increase when you show your partner that you consider Ms ideas as important and valid as your own.		
